recipes/recipe_executor/components/steps/registry/registry_spec.md, before:

# Step Registry Component Specification

## Purpose

The Step Registry component provides a central mechanism for registering and looking up step implementations by their type names. It enables the dynamic discovery of step classes during recipe execution.

## Core Requirements

- Provide a simple mapping between step type names and their implementation classes
- Support registration of step implementations from anywhere in the codebase
- Enable the executor to look up step classes by their type name
- Follow a minimal, dictionary-based approach with no unnecessary complexity

## Implementation Considerations

- Use a single, global dictionary to store all step registrations
- Allow steps to register themselves upon import
- Keep the registry structure simple and stateless
- Avoid unnecessary abstractions or wrapper functions

## Logging

- Debug: None
- Info: None

## Component Dependencies

### Internal Components

None

### External Libraries

None

### Configuration Dependencies

None

## Output Files

- `steps/registry.py`
- `steps/__init__.py` (details below, write this file in addition to the registry.py file)

Create the `__init__.py` file in the `steps` directory to ensure it is treated as a package. Steps are registered in the steps package `__init__.py`:

```python
# In recipe_executor/steps/__init__.py
from recipe_executor.steps.registry import STEP_REGISTRY
from recipe_executor.steps.execute_recipe import ExecuteRecipeStep
from recipe_executor.steps.llm_generate import LLMGenerateStep
from recipe_executor.steps.loop import LoopStep
from recipe_executor.steps.mcp import MCPStep
from recipe_executor.steps.parallel import ParallelStep
from recipe_executor.steps.read_files import ReadFilesStep
from recipe_executor.steps.write_files import WriteFilesStep

# Register steps by updating the registry
STEP_REGISTRY.update({
    "execute_recipe": ExecuteRecipeStep,
    "llm_generate": LLMGenerateStep,
    "loop": LoopStep,
    "mcp": MCPStep,
    "parallel": ParallelStep,
    "read_files": ReadFilesStep,
    "write_files": WriteFilesStep,
})
```

Commit message:

feat: Add ConditionalStep for branching execution in recipes WIP progress on blueprint generator - Introduced ConditionalStep to enable conditional execution based on evaluated expressions. - Updated STEP_REGISTRY to include ConditionalStep. - Created configuration structure for ConditionalStep with condition, if_true, and if_false branches. - Implemented expression evaluation for context checks, file operations, and logical operations. - Added documentation for ConditionalStep usage and configuration. - Updated existing recipes to utilize the new ConditionalStep for improved flow control.

recipes/recipe_executor/components/steps/registry/registry_spec.md, after:

# Step Registry Component Specification

## Purpose

The Step Registry component provides a central mechanism for registering and looking up step implementations by their type names. It enables the dynamic discovery of step classes during recipe execution.

## Core Requirements

- Provide a simple mapping between step type names and their implementation classes
- Support registration of step implementations from anywhere in the codebase
- Enable the executor to look up step classes by their type name
- Follow a minimal, dictionary-based approach with no unnecessary complexity

## Implementation Considerations

- Use a single, global dictionary to store all step registrations
- Allow steps to register themselves upon import
- Keep the registry structure simple and stateless
- Avoid unnecessary abstractions or wrapper functions

## Logging

- Debug: None
- Info: None

## Component Dependencies

### Internal Components

None

### External Libraries

None

### Configuration Dependencies

None

## Output Files

- `steps/registry.py`
- `steps/__init__.py` (details below, IMPORTANT - write this file in addition to the registry.py file!)

Create the `__init__.py` file in the `steps` directory to ensure it is treated as a package. Steps are registered in the steps package `__init__.py`:

```python
# In recipe_executor/steps/__init__.py
from recipe_executor.steps.registry import STEP_REGISTRY
from recipe_executor.steps.conditional import ConditionalStep
from recipe_executor.steps.execute_recipe import ExecuteRecipeStep
from recipe_executor.steps.llm_generate import LLMGenerateStep
from recipe_executor.steps.loop import LoopStep
from recipe_executor.steps.mcp import MCPStep
from recipe_executor.steps.parallel import ParallelStep
from recipe_executor.steps.read_files import ReadFilesStep
from recipe_executor.steps.write_files import WriteFilesStep

# Register steps by updating the registry
STEP_REGISTRY.update({
    "conditional": ConditionalStep,
    "execute_recipe": ExecuteRecipeStep,
    "llm_generate": LLMGenerateStep,
    "loop": LoopStep,
    "mcp": MCPStep,
    "parallel": ParallelStep,
    "read_files": ReadFilesStep,
    "write_files": WriteFilesStep,
})
```
