recipes/recipe_executor/components/main/main_docs.md, before:

# Main Component Usage

## Command-Line Interface

The Recipe Executor is used from the command line like this:

```bash
# Basic usage
python -m recipe_executor.main recipes/my_recipe.json

# With custom log directory
python -m recipe_executor.main recipes/my_recipe.json --log-dir custom_logs

# With context values
python -m recipe_executor.main recipes/my_recipe.json --context key1=value1 --context key2=value2
```

## Command-Line Arguments

The Main component supports these arguments:

1. `recipe_path` (required positional): Path to the recipe file to execute
2. `--log-dir` (optional): Directory for log files (default: "logs")
3. `--context` (optional, multiple): Context values as key=value pairs

## Context Parsing

The Main component parses context values from the command line. For example:

```bash
# These arguments:
--context name=John --context age=30 --context active=true

# Will create this context:
{
    "name": "John",
    "age": "30",
    "active": "true"
}
```

## Exit Codes

The Main component uses these exit codes:

- `0`: Successful execution
- `1`: Error during execution (parsing errors, missing files, execution failures)

## Error Messages

Error messages are written to stderr and the log files:

```python
# Context parsing error
sys.stderr.write(f"Context Error: {str(e)}\n")

# Recipe execution error
logger.error(f"An error occurred during recipe execution: {str(e)}", exc_info=True)
```

## Important Notes

1. The recipe path must point to a valid recipe file
2. Context values from the command line are stored as strings
3. Logs are written to the specified log directory
4. All steps in the recipe share the same context
5. The executable exits with non-zero status on error

Commit message:

adds protocols for component interfaces

recipes/recipe_executor/components/main/main_docs.md, after:

# Main Component Usage

## Command-Line Interface

The Recipe Executor is used from the command line. You invoke the `main` module with a recipe file and optional parameters. For example:

```bash
# Basic usage:
python -m recipe_executor.main recipes/my_recipe.json

# With a custom log directory:
python -m recipe_executor.main recipes/my_recipe.json --log-dir custom_logs

# With context values:
python -m recipe_executor.main recipes/my_recipe.json --context key1=value1 --context key2=value2
```

## Command-Line Arguments

The Main component supports these command-line arguments:

1. **`recipe_path`** (positional, required): Path to the recipe file to execute.
2. **`--log-dir`** (optional): Directory for log files (default: `"logs"`). If the directory does not exist, it will be created.
3. **`--context`** (optional, repeatable): Context values as `key=value` pairs. You can specify this option multiple times to provide multiple context entries.

## Context Parsing

If you provide context values via `--context`, the Main component will parse them into the execution context. For example:

```bash
# Given the arguments:
--context name=John --context age=30 --context active=true

# The resulting context artifacts will be:
{
    "name": "John",
    "age": "30",
    "active": "true"
}
```

_(All values are parsed as strings. It's up to individual steps to interpret types as needed.)_

## Exit Codes

Main uses exit codes to indicate outcome:

- `0` — Successful execution.
- `1` — An error occurred (e.g., invalid arguments, failure during recipe execution).

These codes can be used in shell scripts to handle success or failure of the recipe execution.

## Error Messages

Error messages and exceptions are written to standard error and also logged:

```python
# Example of an error message for a context format issue:
sys.stderr.write("Context Error: Invalid context format 'foo'\n")

# Example of logging an execution error (in logs and stderr):
logger.error("An error occurred during recipe execution: ...", exc_info=True)
```

The stack trace for exceptions is output to stderr (via `traceback.format_exc()`) to aid in debugging issues directly from the console.

## Important Notes

1. The main entry point is designed to be simple and minimal. It delegates the heavy lifting to the `Context` and `Executor` components.
2. All steps in the executed recipe share the same context instance, which is created by Main from the provided context arguments. This context implements the `ContextProtocol` interface (see Protocols documentation), though in usage you typically interact with it via the `Context` class.
3. The Main component itself doesn't enforce any type of step ordering beyond what the recipe dictates; it simply invokes the Executor and waits for it to process the steps sequentially.
4. Environment variables (for example, API keys for LLM steps) can be set in a `.env` file. Main will load this file at startup via `load_dotenv()`, making those values available to components that need them.
5. Logging is configured at runtime when Main calls `init_logger`. The logs (including debug information and errors) are saved in the directory specified by `--log-dir`. Each run may append to these logs, so it's advisable to monitor or clean the log directory if running many recipes.
